Project Report

Museums of United States Databases

The goal of this mini project was to match two databases about museums in the United States and see if the revenue that the museum generates is linked
to positive reviews in Tripadvisor. 

Extract: your original data sources and how the data was formatted (CSV, JSON, pgAdmin 4, etc).

The original data sources that we found were available at kaggle. These databases wer:

1. (CSV file) A list of all museums in the United States. This database contains 33,072 different museums (rows) and 25 columns containing different data 
such as the 'Museum ID’, ‘Museum Name’, ‘Legal Name’, ‘Alternate Name’,‘Museum Type’, ‘Institution Name’,‘Street Address (Administrative Location)’,
‘City (Administrative Location)’, ‘State (Administrative Location)’,Zip Code (Administrative Location)’,‘Street Address (Physical Location)’, 
‘City (Physical Location)’,‘State (Physical Location)’, ‘Zip Code (Physical Location)’,‘Phone Number’, ‘Latitude’, ‘Longitude’, ‘Locale Code (NCES)’,
‘County Code (FIPS)’, ‘State Code (FIPS)’, ‘Region Code (AAM)’,‘Employer ID Number’, ‘Tax Period’, ‘Income’, ‘Revenue’.

2. (CSV File) A list of museums in the United States that are reviewed in the travel webpage Tripadvisor. This database contains 1,013 different museums. 
In the 13 columns of this file there was information stating ‘Address’, ‘Description’, ‘FeatureCount’, ‘Fee’,‘Langtitude’, ‘Latitude’, ‘LengthOfVisit’, 
‘MuseumName’, ‘PhoneNum’,‘Rank’, ‘Rating’, ‘ReviewCount’, ‘TotalThingsToDo’.


Transform: what data cleaning or transformation was required.

The catalog database was very complete regarding museum information, however, there wer some empty spaces in the income and revenue data. 
The tripadvisor database was inconsistent in the museum zip codes and addresses. We startet the project, trying to find a link between zip codes, 
addresses or coordinates of the museums, but due to the different information it was not possible. 

Addresses were different, zip codes were repeated due to several museums in one zip code, and coordinates had different amount of decimals. 
Finally we were able to match the museum names. 

We opened the CSV's in a jupyter notebook and began cleaning the data, until 2 different dataframes were obtained. These dataframes contained less columns.
We had a museums_df with Museum Name, Museum Type, City, State, Income and Revenue.  The other dataframe, tripadvisor_df, has the Museum Name,
rating and review count. 


Load: the final database, tables/collections, and why this was chosen.

Both dataframes were loaded to postgresadmin. A Museums Database was created, and thre tables were created.
The first one was the museums_df as a table with the columns already mentioned above. The second one was the tripadvisor_df as table. Finally, after
merging both tables and obtaining the results of the top 10 museums in the US considering rating vs revenue, we created a museums_results table to 
download as CSV.

We conclude that the Musuems that belong to the Yale University are the ones that generate the highest profit in the United States and have reviwes of 5
and 4.5 stars. 
The museum with the most review counts in Tripadvisor is the American Museum of Natural History, located in New York City, and generates enough revenue
to appear in our top 10 list. 